Now that I've shown you
some examples of streams
at the source code
level, let's visualize
how streams work in action.
And I do this for a
number of reasons.
I typically find it useful to
see the bigger-picture view
sometimes.
You can look at source code.
Source code is
obviously ground truth.
But sometimes it
helps to sort of
be able to see, literally,
what's going on.
So the starting point
for this, of course,
is just reiterating the
fact that streams give you
this processing
pipeline that could
be used to flexibly compose
multiple aggregate operations
together.
That's kind of the
big-picture view, where
each aggregate operation
will filter or transform
the stream in one
way or another.
Let's now take a look at
how we might visualize
our simple program
here, which can
be found in the EX12 folder
in my GitHub repository.
So what's going to happen
here on the left-hand side,
I'm going to show
you sort of what's
happening at a visual level.
On the right-hand
side, I'm going
to kind of show you the steps
involved in the source code.
So we start out first
with a list of names.
These are the
characters in Hamlet.
And then we use the
of factory method
in order to convert that list
of names into a stream of names.
So there will be a
stream of strings,
one for every element
in the original list.
We then go ahead and
filter out the elements
that start without H
as their first letter.
So we're basically
only allowing things
through that start with H.
As you can see here on the
left-hand side, what that means
is that any of the character
names like Laertes or Gertrude
or Claudius that
don't start with H
will no longer be in
the output stream that
comes out from the filter
intermediate operation.
So we end up with
a stream of names
that start with an
uppercase or lowercase H.
The next thing we do is
we go ahead and pipe that
through the map
intermediate operation.
And we give it the
capitalized behavior.
As you can see if you look
closely at the slides,
that means that all
of our characters
now have a capital H at
the beginning of the name,
followed by lowercase letters.
And then the final
thing we do is
we take the stream of
capitalized names starting
with H and then we sort that.
And we'll end up
with a sorted output
of names that are consistently
capitalized starting with H.
So that's just kind of showing
you visually what's happening.
And I'll show this oftentimes
as we go through the examples,
because I find it's
a good way to see,
at a high level, what's really
happening underneath the hood.